Try as we may, none of us can be in all places at all times. Not even the gods can do that. So we do 
what we can and measure our success, if we are wise, by what our hearts tell us at the end of a day, and 
not what our eyes tell us of how much we have changed Faerun

Storm Silverhand 
To Harp at Twilight 
Year of the Swollen Stars


Their last glimpse of Thunder Gap, far behind, was blocked by dark, sinister winged shapes in the sky. 
Narm watched them flapping out of the mountains, found his mouth suddenly dry, and swallowed with 
some difficulty.
"DeIg," he managed to croak. The dwarf did not even turn to see where he was pointing. "I've been 
ignoring them," Delg told him sourly. "It's easiest."
"Ignoring them? That's all?" Shandril asked incredulously, looking back at the dark, hunting shapes as 
they grew ever larger, ever closer.
"You've a bright scheme of some sort, lass?" The dwarfs woe was sharp as he hastened on, an errant 
skillet banging on metal somewhere inside his pack.
"Well, we've got to hide," Shandril said hotly. "I haven't spellfire enough to-"
"That's why I've been saving my breath and not stopping to look back," the dwarf said in dry tones. "It 
brings the trees closer, as fast as I can make them move.... See the little dip ahead there? It's a ravine: 
the branches'll be thick, and there'll be a stream to hide our own noises - arguing with wise dwarves, for 
instance. . . ."
Narm and Shandril exchanged glances, then hurried after the dwarf toward the ravine he'd indicated. 
Only after they had reached cover did any of them speak again.
"What are they?" Narm's voice was low. He'd never seen such ugly things before-huge, fat, scaled 
things with bat wings, claws, and horselike heads that ended in two probing, twisting snouts. Each 
snout held sharp jaws; even down here Narm could smell the rotting reek of their breath.
"Foulwings," Delg said. "Well named, aye?"
Narm watched the heavy, ungainly things flap over them, wheel, and dart this way and that, searching 
along the road and the edges of the forest for signs of a maid, her man, and a dwarf. He shivered as a 
foulwing turned overhead, and the head of the robed and hooded rider pivoted, scanning the forest. For 
a moment it seemed that the foulwing rider looked right at him. Fear rose in Narm. Frantically he 
searched his mind for some spell that wouldn't reveal their location to the foes above.
And then the foulwing wheeled in the air, belching and snorting angrily as its rider struck it cruelly 
with a metal goad. In the man's other hand, a wand glinted for a moment before he flew onward, out of 
sight. His companions, some ten or twelve others, followed afterward.
"Who rides foulwings?" he asked, trying to sound calm. "Evil folk," Delg said brightly. When Narm 
looked at him in disgust, the dwarf added a savage grin. Narm folded his arms and waited for further 
explanation.
Delg rumbled, "If you must know, lad: the Zhents; the Cult of the Dragon; I've heard the Red Wizards 
of Thay do, too; I saw the private army of a lich riding 'em once, in the Vilhon-and the tavern-talk in 
Suzail, when last I was there, had some lord or other of Westgate using them, in league with a pirate. 
For all I know, half the rich merchants in Sembia keep 'em as pets."
"If they're as common as all that, why've I never heard of them before?" Narm protested.
Delg rolled his eyes. "D'you know how many folk I've heard say that down the years, lad? Most of 'em 
had been adventuring longer than you have, too-and the things they hadn't met with before killed 'em 
just as dead as if they'd been old friends. Had you seen or heard of spellfire before you met with your 
lady? D'you think I could stand in the midst of it, protesting I'd never heard of it before, and thereby 
escape being burned?"
Narm opened his mouth to reply, but another voice spoke first: Shandril could move very quietly when 
she wanted to. They'd left her lying silent and still under spread cloaks in the ravine-but neither Narm 
or Delg was surprised to find her beside them on their perch on a low, gnarled bough of an old phandar 
tree. Her eyes smoldered a little as she asked softly, "Could these foulwing riders be the darker, greater 
foes Elminster warned us about back in Shadowdale, do you think?"
Narm spread his hands. "He never said enough about 'Those Who Watch' to tell us how to recognize 
them." Delg shrugged, and added, "I'd rather not call those bat-horses down to ask." He squinted up at 
them and asked, "Does it matter? Whoever they are, they're bold enough to fly openly into Cormyr in 
broad daylight. Just one of those foulwings could tear all of us apart if it catches Shan by surprise, with 
no spellfire ready. It's the forest for us, from now on."
And so it was that the only known wielder of spellfire and her companions turned off the road into the 
vast and deep Hullack Forest. They rested after several hours of struggling through thick stands of 
duskwood. While they sat, Shandril managed to eat some cheese, preceded by some rather old milk, 
and followed by some rather winestrong broth. Delg insisted on doing all the cooking. "1'd probably 
starve if I left the food to you or your husband there" was the gentle way he put it when she'd protested. 
Shandril was just as glad not to handle their provisions - too much had been salvaged from the ruin of 
Thundarlun, bringing memories of its slaughter back into her mind. She was growing tired of the 
killing-and of seeing fear in the eyes of folk she was fighting for, or alongside, when they looked at her.
None of the three wore smiles this day. None had been eager to enter the dark, tangled forest. It 
stretched on for miles, sprawling over most of eastern Cormyr, a wild and forbidding place. Foresters 
and hunters seldom ventured far into its dim depths. Long before night stole up to cast its cloak over 
Cormyr, the three had come to the end of the last, fading forest trail-and plunged on into the trackless, 
shady depths of the heart of Hullack Forest.
"We can't see far enough or move fast enough for my liking," Delg said, axe in hand. He glared at the 
trees all around them in the gathering gloom. "I'm beginning to hold the opinion that we'd have done 
better to have stayed on the road and faced whatever your enemies had left to hurl at us."
"I'm beginning to hold the opinion," Narm replied in a low voice, "that your words are wiser now than 
when you led us off the road."
"Belt up, lad" Delg put little anger behind his words; he peered tensely around them as if expecting an 
immediate attack.
"Wherever wisdom lies," Shandril said softly, "we can't find our way back now. We must go on. Night 
comes swiftly-we daren't travel blindly about in it, for I've heard of boars and worse hunted here. We 
must find a place to rest, before dark."
"Aye. A safe place," DeIg grunted. "A place one of us can defend while the others sleep. A place with 
rock at our backs is best."
"Assuredly," Narm agreed. "I'm sure I've several such places just lying about here, somewhere ... now 
where did I leave them, I wonder? Cou-"
"You," Shandril told him severely, "have been listening to the nimble tongue of Torm too much of late. 
Let's hurry, ere the light fails entirely: we must seek high ground and hope we find a cliff, or perhaps a 
cave."
"One without a bear," Delg added, hastening on in the gathering darkness. They could hear him puffing 
as they hurried on over leaves and tangles of fallen, mossy logs. More than once he slipped or stumbled 
and broke branches underfoot with dull cracking sounds. "I never liked forests," he added gloomily on 
the heels of a particularly hard fall.
Shandril and Narm both chuckled. They were climbing a tree-clad slope toward a place of slightly 
greater brightness in the deepening twilight; a glade, perhaps, or rocky height where trees grew more 
thinly. The forest around them was coming alive with mysterious rustlings and eerie, far-off hoots and 
baying calls. The three hurried onward and upward over tumbled stones, racing to find a refuge before 
nightfall caught up with them.
The trees thinned, and then the weary travelers came to an open space. Looking up, Narm saw stars 
winking overhead in the gathering night. A huge shadowtop tree had toppled here, perhaps a season 
ago, its vast trunk smashing aside smaller saplings to clear a little space in the thick, tangled forest. The 
three wanderers looked around for a moment, met each other's eyes, and nodded in unison. This place 
would have to do.
Delg caught Narm's elbow. "Gather firewood," he said. 'You and me. One each side of her, while Shan 
unpacks. Don't make noise you don't have to."
"A fire?" Narm said. "Won't that draw anyone who's searching-"
`They've magic, lad," Delg told him dryly. -They could find us if we stuffed leaves in our hair and 
stood like trees 'til morning. The big beasts, too - an' the smaller ones'll come to look, but not dare 
approach too near. We may as well have some comfort."

"Dear, dear," Gathlarue said, not very far away, as she looked into her softly glowing crystal, where 
three tiny shapes moved and spoke. Her slim lips crooked in a little smile. "I was so looking forward to 
seeing you stuff leaves into your mouth, Sir Dwarf. Now I'll have to stare at your fire-and looking into 
dancing flames always makes me sleepy"
"Wine, Lady?" Gathlarue's older apprentice stood over her, a dark shape against the trees that rose all 
around them. The slim, raven-haired girl held a silver-harnessed crystal decanter in her hands.
Gathlarue looked up at her, smiled, and took the goblet she offered. "My thanks, precious one. You 
know my needs so well."
Mairara twisted her mouth in a wordless, affectionate reply, bent to kiss her, and glided softly away. 
Gathlarue grinned faintly into her scrying globe; the blood-spell she had woven long ago let her listen 
to the thoughts of both her apprentices whenever she chose, unbeknownst to them. For all her kisses 
and kindnesses, Mairara meant to work her a painful death one day soon.
Before that day came, Gathlarue meant to use her well. To rise in the ranks of the Zhentarim would 
take more magic than Gathlarue could wield alone. A few days back, while in Zhentil Keep, she'd seen 
afresh all the cruel striving that would oppose her. The magelings had been gathered to hear Manshoon, 
and so much cruelty and aroused magic had hung barely in check in that room that the smell of it had 
almost made her afraid.
Almost. She'd have to be careful, as always; the other mages could bend their wills entirely to hurling 
destruction, but she always had to spare some Art when in their midst for cloaking herself in male 
guise. Her Zhentilar warriors respected her, but no women, it seemed, rose high in the robed ranks of 
the Zhentarim.
That could well change-soon. She had a spell that might handle even Lord Manshoon. More than that, 
she had one that might just foil spellfire. Gathlarue's smile deepened as she recalled finding the spell: 
she had discovered a place high atop a leaning, roofless tower in ruined Myth Drannor where a certain 
word and touch of a certain stone brought a portal into being in midair. The oval, shimmering door had 
led into some ancient wizard's long-abandoned hideaway. It was a cozy room tucked away in 
nothingness-a room whose walls were covered with shelves groaning under the weight of spellbooks. 
More spells than she'd ever have time to learn. Yet she'd taken away enough, if the gods smiled on her, 
to rule any corner of Faerun she chose. Not that anyone but her knew that, yet.
Gathlarue had learned patience down the years, and now it was an old, comfortable friend. She nodded, 
sipping the wine, and looked out into the gathering darkness of the forest depths. Her amulet made the 
drink safe, whatever drugs or poisons Mairara or others might have. added to it. She bent her 
concentration again to the stone.
Ah-the three had their fire lit and their cooking begun. They'd relax soon and talk. She'd listen and 
learn, not rush into find death from the maid's spellfire. Even the great Shadowsil had perished in 
Shandril's flames and Manshoon himself had been forced to flee. No, she'd watch and wait, to strike 
when the chance shone brightest As she always had.
Gathlarue took another sip of the warmed, spiced wine, and stretched like a languid cat From behind 
her, across their forest camp, came the faint but unmistakable sounds of Tespril entertaining one of the 
guards in the deepening night Gathlarue made a face in that direction. Really - the quality of 
apprentices one was forced to settled for these days.
Delg had produced a rather strong-smelling bundle from the bottom of his pack, and at Shandril's 
wrinkled nose and raised eyebrow had said only, "Yes, it's Zhent stuff. From Thundarlun. Owner past 
needing it. Handy, carrying an axe-everyone should."
The meat, whatever it had been, made a flavorful stew. Delg tossed liberal handfuls of onions into the 
little blackened pot. The warm, sharp smell that followed made Shandril think of Gorstag's onion-
heavy stews back at The Rising Moon, the inn where she'd grown up. Her eyes were suddenly wet with 
tears. She'd been happy therehow happy, she hadn't known until too late. Now all that was lost forever; 
she dared not go back for fear her foes would slaughter her friends and burn the old Moon to the 
ground. She bit her lip and turned into Narm's arms, burying her face against his chest just before the 
hot tears came.
"What's wrong, Shan-" Narm began anxiously as she sobbed and shook against him.
Delg stumped up to him, shook his head to stop Narm's words, and reached out one brawny arm to 
stroke Shandril's heaving back. His stubby fingers moved gently, lovingly, as his other arm took hold 
of Narm's wrist, and guided the young mage's hand firmly to Shandril's back. Narm obediently began 
soothing his lady, and the dwarf stepped back, nodding in satisfied silence.
Shandril cried, seeing again the clutching claws of the gargoyles in ruined Myth Drannor, the cruel, 
mocking smile of the Shadowsil who'd captured her, the chilling eyes of the dragon who'd lived beyond 
death, and the burning, roasted men she'd left behind her in Thundarlun. Why, oh why, couldn't she just 
go back to Shadowdale or Highmoon and live in peace among friends-and never see a Zhentarim 
wizard or Cult of the Dragon fanatic again? Gods hear and answer, she thought, if you have pity-why?
Delg let the fire die low as he stumped around the clearing, peering watchfully into the dimness of the 
woods around him. It would do the lass good to cry awhile-past time for it, for one so young. He 
stroked the familiar curves of his axe head as he went, remembering Shandril's anger in battle, her eyes 
turned to blazing flames as she dealt death to the Zhents. He shook his head to banish those sights from 
his mind. More power than was good for anyone, this one had-more power than most could carry, and 
stay good folk.
A little chill went through him as he stopped and looked into the night-and thought about how he might 
have to kill her, for the safety of all in the Realms. His superiors had been grimly insistent that he never 
lose sight of that.
It was not the first time he'd had this dark thought. Delg stroked his axe again. It was the first time his 
mind had envisioned his axe leaping down to cleave Shandril's head, her long hair swirling amid 
blazing spellfire ... the dwarf shook his head angrily and stumped back toward the fire with 
unnecessary violence. Enough of such fell dreams! They're for folk too idle to pay full heed to what's 
around them right now. . . .
Shandril lifted bright eyes to him as he came up, and she managed a wavering smile. Delg nodded at 
her, and asked roughly, "More stew?"
Narm smiled, shaking his head slightly; Shandril did the same. The dwarf shrugged and sat down 
beside the fire, shifting the burning branches and adding a few more.
And then there was light where no light should be, touching his face on the side away from the fire. 
Delg spun, hand going to his axe. Narm and Shandril scrambled to their feet behind him
In the air above the fallen shadowtop, a patch of light had appeared. It hung at about the height of a tall 
man's head, an area of spinning, silvery radiance that pulsed and sputtered. As they watched, it 
brightened and seemed somehow to look at them.
"Be not alarmed," came a faintly echoing voice from it. A man's voice, sounding somehow dignified 
and elderly, speaking from a long distance away.
A wizard, no doubt. Whatever the voice said, DeIg was alarmed. Damn all magic, anyway! Honest folk 
couldn't-
"Hold, Shandril of Highmoon!" The voice had grown louder, and stern. "In the name of Azoun, I bid 
you make answer to me! I am Vangerdahast, Royal Wizard of Cormyr, and by this magic can only 
speak to you, not cast magic on you or do any harm to you and yours. Shandril, do you hear me?"
Three pairs of startled eyes met. Delg shrugged. Impulsively, Shandril leaned forward and said, "I am 
here, Lord Wizard." Her voice quavered; for some reason, she felt guilty and weak and in need of 
approval from this far-off wizard she'd never met. In Highmoon, she'd heard often of the mighty 
Vangerdahast-and by all accounts, he sounded less good-natured and forgiving than the far mightier 
Elminster she knew. The patch of radiance pulsed and grew brighter.
"That is good, Lady Shandril. I repeat: I mean you no ill, and this sending of mine can do you no 
harm." The light drifted nearer, and Narm's face darkened in suspicion. He raised his hands, ready to 
cast a spell, and stepped between Shandril and the wizard's glow, waving to Delg to keep watch on the 
woods around them. The dwarf gave him an approving, mirthless grin and did so.
"What would you, then?" Shandril's voice was steady now, her tears forgotten. It seemed they were 
under attack once more. Her fingertips tingled as excitement rose within her, and her spellfire awoke.
"I would know what you intend to do within the borders of Cormyr, and where you are bound. More: I 
must know what befell at Thundarlun, and your part in it." The light dwindled slightly, danced, and 
then strengthened again. "What say you?"
Shandril trembled in sudden suspicion. Just who was listening? Was this really the great Vangerdahast? 
And who might be listening from the dark woods all round them? She caught Delg's eyes; the dwarf 
had turned to
look at her levelly, his face expressionless. Shandril took a deep breath and made her decision.
"I intend no harm to the folk and land of Cormyr, nor my challenge to the authority or property of the 
king," she said flatly. "I am fleeing enemies who would destroy me-among them, the warriors of 
Zhentil Keep, who followed me into your land through the Gap and caught up with me at Thundarlun. I 
can trust no one enough to tell where we are headed, but I assure you that I do not intend to settle or 
tarry in Cormyr. Let us pass in peace, I ask you."
"What happened at Thundarlun?" The voice was calm and level.
"Zhentilar troops, on horses, attacked us at Thunder Gap. We escaped them, and got as far as the guard 
post at Thundarlun before they caught up with us. Their arrows killed all the soldiers and the war 
wizard there. They set fire to houses and threatened to burn all the village if I did not come out to them. 
So I did." Shandril paused for a moment, and then added simply, "When they were dead, we took what 
food and drink we needed from the guard post, and went on."
"You slew them all?"
"You know what I bear," Shandril said sharply, more cold anger in her tone than she really felt.
"I do," came the voice. "I do not question your words, but I must know if any Zhentilar still ride free in 
eastern Cormyr."
"All that I saw are dead," Shandril said wearily, "but again and again they find me with magic-as you 
have done. Zhents may listen to us even now; I feel they are near."
"How many did you kill? And how many soldiers of Cormyr did you see dead in Thundarlun?"
Shandril fought down sudden tears, struggling to speak.
Her voice, when it came, was a fierce whisper. "I don't count the dead any more, wizard. I can't bear 
to!"
"Have you heard enough?" Narm could no longer contain his anger; his shout echoed back at them 
from the nearest trees.
"Peace, lad!" Delg said gruffly, and tromped closer to the floating light. "As near as I can tell," he told 
it without introduction, "Shan burned about a score from their saddles at the Gap. That many and a 
dozen more at the hamlet where we fought. I saw near two dozen more Purple Dragons lying dead 
there. And I have a question for you, wizard: Is it Azoun's will that we pass freely through Cormyr, or 
are we going to have to fight every soldier and war wizard we meet? Tell us now-or that's just what 
we'll have to do, for the sake of our own hides."
The light shimmered. "I cannot speak for the king," it said, after some hesitation.
Delg bent closer. "He's there with you, though, listening, isn't he?"
A heavy, waiting silence hung in the glade after those words, and the light slowly grew brighter.
Then a new voice spoke from it, younger and more melodic-and yet somehow heavier with authority. 
"I am. I have heard of you, sir, and have heard now three voices speaking; how many of you are there?"
Delg said promptly, "I'm no longer young enough to willingly wear the cloak of a fool. Would you 
make true answer, in our place?"
"I understand," the king's voice replied. "There is a harp rhyme, known to some, that begins with the 
words `I walked in the woods and dreamt I felt the kisses of maidens'-do you know it?"
"I do," said DeIg roughly, breathing hard. Narm and Shandril were both aware that a great tension had 
suddenly fallen from the dwarf. "The song is well chosen."
"I've heard harps, more than once. You have good taste in ballads."
"Thank you," said King Azoun, and they could tell he meant it Shandril also sensed more than one 
meaning lay behind those two simple words-something only Delg would understand. She glanced at the 
dwarf, but he had turned to peer alertly into the forest about them, his battered, bearded face 
expressionless.
The king went on. "Word has come to me of all of you, then. Shandril, know that Cormyr has no 
designs upon your powers or person. Yet, I warn you never to forget this: whatever the challenge, I will 
keep peace in my realm, no matter the cost. My knights and armsmen will do what they must to defend 
the good land and folk of Cormyr. We will not seek you, or offer war to you and yours. Pass in peace-
and let us hope that we can one day meet openly, as friends, and give no thought for battle or danger."
"Pretty speech," Delg-grunted, in a low voice.
Shandril rushed to cover the dwarfs words. "I-I thank you, Your Highness. I mean no harm to any in 
Cormyr, and-I hope to know you as a friend, too." She paused for a moment, and added, "I'm growing 
impatient for the day when, gods willing, it won't be a dangerous thing to be my friend."
The light drifted a little closer to her, sparkled, and then drew back. "If it's any strength to you," the 
king's voice said gently, "I have known that same feeling. Gods smile on you, Shandril of Highmoon. 
You have our blessing to pass through our land."

"My thanks," Shandril replied. "Farewell."
As she spoke, the light was already dwindling and fading. She watched until she was sure it was gone 
before sighing her relief.
Narm turned to embrace her, smiling, but she thrust him aside and ran. She managed to get several 
strides away before she fell on her knees and emptied her stomach into the moss and dead leaves.
Delg stalked over to stand above her heaving shoulders. As she choked and sobbed, he said dryly, 
"Perhaps it's a good thing we didn't seek the palace in Suzail straight off to have audience with the 
king. His carpets might not be overly improved by your visits."
Shandril choked and shook and then found herself laughing weakly, still on hands and knees.
"Shan! Shan? Are you all right?" Narm asked fearfully. Shandril felt the forest damp beneath her paIns 
and the searing ache in her ribs. Despite it all, she smiled.
"I think I am. Yes." She reached out, got a hand on Delg's belt buckle, and dragged herself upward. The 
dwarf stood like a rock as she climbed up ?him, hand over hand. Upright, she steadied herself, wiped at 
her mouth, and then brushed some errant hair out of her face. She saw a smile playing at the edges of 
his lips.
"Thanks, Delg," Shandril said to him and hugged him. "I'm right glad you're with us." She stepped into 
the shady gloom of night under the trees, and they saw her eyes catch flame for a moment before she 
added softly, "I'll be happier still when we reach Silverymoon and the safety and teachings of 
Alustriel." Spellfire danced in her hands for a moment before she added in a frightened whisper, "Help 
me get there-before the Zhents make me too accustomed to killing."

"Have they begun?" There was cold amusement in Lord Manshoon's voice as they turned through an 
archway guarded by two stiffly alert guardsmen.
"Of course," Sarhthor replied. "Some took bold leave of me, with grandly sinister half-promises and 
hints of dark plans. Others simply slipped away."
Together they stepped into a large, empty chamber, then turned sharply right into a dark alcove. Its 
dusty, cobwebbed back wall was an illusion; as they strode through it, Sarhthor added, "You know 
they've started, Lord. Once you spoke of spellfire, you could have forbidden them to seek it-and still 
they'd have tried. Magelings who last this long are ruled by their lust for power, however much they 
might pretend to command wisdom and shrewd reason."
The two archwizards squeezed past a motionless golem and strolled down the dark passage beyond it to 
a featureless door. Sarhthor drew it open, and Manshoon strode through, his black cloak swirling about 
him.
The room beyond was small. Two closed doors faced them, and in the center of the room stood a 
wooden plinth; on it lay a small gold key. Manshoon ignored all these features, turning sharply left to a 
door beside the one through which he had entered. He strode forward as if that dark wooden door did 
not exist and as the toe of his boot touched its surface, he vanished, leaving Sarhthor alone in the room.
The Zhentarim archmage carefully closed the door they had entered through and looked around the 
room. Death awaited those who touched the key or the other two doors, he knew-for he had helped 
arrange it so. Smiling faintly, he followed Manshoon.
One of his boots left the floor in that dark room deep inside Zhentil Keep as the other clicked down 
onto glass. smooth marble in a grand, high-vaulted chamber in the heart of the Citadel of the Raven. It 
took hurrying warriors two days or more to make the trip they'd just covered in a single step. Sarhthor 
hoped it would never be necessary to reveal the existence of the magical gate to the Zhentilar. They'd 
not be pleased, and he hated unnecessary violence.
Ahead, Manshoon ignored the faintly glowing tapestries that hung in midair all around, like the vertical 
war banners carried on the spears of Zhentilar horsemen. He looked only for what shouldn't be there-
and found nothing out of place. He strode across the vast, high hall to stand facing one of the 
elaborately painted windows, then halted, watchful and coldly patient. The window was as large across 
as three stone coffins placed end to end. It depicted a scarlet dragon coiling around the pearly-hued 
moon, its emerald eyes glittering and jaws opened to devour the pale orb.
Manshoon stood impassively and dispassionately regarding it as Sarhthor made his own way across the 
gleaming marble to stand behind and to one side of the high lord. As he came to a halt, the window 
began to slide aside.
Their arrival had been watched, as usual.
Still glowing with false sunlight, the window slid open, revealing a dark hole behind it, like the 
eyesocket of a gigantic skull. Out of that darkness floated two spherical creatures, their dark bodies 
surrounded by sinuously coiling tentacles that turned restlessly to point in one direction and then 
another. From the end of each stalk, a cold, fell eye looked out at the world.
Each beholder slowly turned on end to gather all ten of its eyestalks in a sinister, watchful cluster: a 
forest of eyes stared at the two Zhentarim wizards as the beholders drifted into the room.
The eye tyrants floated on in silence until they hung above the wizards, well out of reach and 
comfortably separated from each other. Then they rolled slowly upright, revealing their many-toothed 
mouths and large, central eyes. One was slightly larger than the other.
"Something is amiss here," the larger one hissed in its deep, echoing voice. "Strange magic is present." 
Manshoon turned wordlessly to Sarhthor, who frowned, shook his head doubtfully, and said, "If you'll 
allow me a few breaths and a spell, Lords . . ."
"Proceed," three cold voices said together, and the archmage had to hide a smile at how like the eye 
tyrants Manshoon sounded ... how like an eye tyrant he had truly become.
Slowly and carefully, Sarhthor made the gestures and mutterings of a powerful and thorough detection 
spell. Thousands of tiny motes of light erupted from his robes, swirling around the chamber like a 
school of startled fish, prying into every corner. The conspirators waited patiently as the lights 
swooped, darted, hung in corners, and finally faded away.
Sarhthor shook his head again. "Many enchantments adorn the tapestries, walls, ceiling, and floor-as 
always, and some of them have been laid so as to shift and change, over time-but as Mystra is my 
witness, I can find no trace of scrying, spies, or magical traps in this place. There are, however, two 
spiders alive here, and a scuttlebug-by your leave?"
Manshoon nodded, and the beholders blinked all their eyes, once. Sarhthor strode across the floor to 
crush the three intruders underfoot. "Done," he said simply, then walked back to stand with his lord.
"You called for me with some secrecy," Manshoon said flatly, looking up at the beholders, "and I have 
come. Speak."
Eyestalks curled, and many glances flickered silently back and forth high above the two men; an 
unspoken agreement was swiftly reached. The smaller beholder drifted slightly lower. "We have 
become increasingly mistrustful of the loyalty of Fzoul and his underlings to any causes and authority 
but their own. Prying priests are everywhere in Zhentil Keep; we dared not meet with you there."
The other, larger beholder spoke. "We have also," it rumbled coldly, "begun to despair over the 
ineptitude of the current crop of magelings. Many of us would like to see wizards firmly in Control of 
our Brotherhood again, wielding spellfire so as to rule or destroy the priests. But most of the lesser 
wizards lack the self-control to govern themselves, let alone control anything else."
"Aye, this spellfire is the key," said the smaller eye tyrant eagerly. "If you are to keep our support, 
Manshoon, your hand must come to wield it, or hold a firm grip on whoever does."
The High Lord of Zhentil Keep shrugged. "Tell me how, with the losses we've suffered so far trying to 
seize spellfire, I am to ensure our wizards will be powerful enough to win it at last-and still be strong 
enough to tame the priests."
The rumbling reply sounded a little triumphant, and somehow amused. "With the unlooked-for aid we 
have brought you. Meet Iliph Thraun, a lord among fiches, as you are a lord among men."
Something small and white moved in the dark opening from whence the beholders had come. It turned 
and rose. A yellowed human skull drifted into view, looking down at the two wizards.
Both of them stared expressionlessly up at it, thinking the same old saying of Faerun: surprises seldom 
grow more welcome as one gets older.
The skull drifted to a halt in midair, floating below the two beholders. Two pale, flickering points of 
light hung in its dark sockets; its gaze was cold but somehow eager as it looked down at the two mages.
"Well met," it said formally, in hollow tones punctuated by the faint clattering of its teeth. "In life, long 
ago, I had the power of spellfire. I can drain it from this Shandril, if I can catch her asleep."
"And if she wakes before you are done?"
The skull drifted closer. "Once enough of her spellfire is gone, the lass will lose control over what is 
left. She will become a wild wand whenever she unleashes spellfire-a menace to allies and those she 
holds dear. Soon she will destroy them . . . and, in the end, herself."
Lord Manshoon nodded slowly. "I thank you, lich lord. Your powers may bring victory for us all." His 
words held the finality of a farewell.
As the skull made a polite reply, the smaller beholder turned and drifted a little way toward it. 
Obediently, the skull drifted out through the opening it had entered by. When it was gone, Manshoon 
calmly asked the beholders, "What good is this? I trade a young, reckless girl who scarce knows how to 
use spellfire for an old, wise, mighty-in-Art lichnee who is sure to defy my orders? Where's the gain in 
that?"
The larger beholder's mouth crooked in a slow smile. "In becoming a lich, this Thraun used a flawed 
process; its unlife is maintained by magical energies provided by magelings whom it tutors, then 
destroys when they grow too powerful. It feeds on certain spells cast for it-if you modify them in the 
right way, you or any wizard can command the lich lord with absolute precision."
The other beholder spoke. "Would you know these magics?"
"Of course." Manshoon did not even look at Sarhthor as he added, "Speak freely."
"The energy can come from any of the spells that drain lifeforce, or from those that create fire or 
lightning. Thraun needs them modified so their effects form a sphere, the energies spiraling to its heart-
where this lich lord waits. If you work a governance over undeath and a masking charm employing the 
name `Calauthas' in your modifying incantations, you can control Thraun from a distance-an absolute 
control that compels the lich lord's nature. If you choose to do this through a lesser mage whose mind 
you control, you can even command the lich lord without its knowing who you are."
"So Thraun, who doubtless intends to destroy us all when it regains spellfire, becomes our helpless 
pawn. A nice twist." The High Lord of Zhentil Keep took two thoughtful paces across the gleaming 
marble, and then looked up again.
"The time to use Thraun is not yet," he said. "To gather our mages or to have the lich lord widely seen 
will arouse Fzoul's suspicions. If you agree, I'll send a mageling to serve Thraun, a wizard this lich lord 
believes it can easily destroy-but one whose mind I control. We tell Thraun our difficulties in capturing 
Shandril continue, and it's best not to reveal a lich lord whom others may fear and attack, unless we 
have the maid in hand."
"I have noticed," the larger beholder observed, "that the priests of our Brotherhood regard all undead as 
things to be either their slaves or swiftly destroyed."
Manshoon nodded. "That is why there have always been very few liches in the Brotherhood." He began 
to pace again. "If Thraun grows restive, or Shandril eludes us for too long, we allow it to go after her--
exerting our control only when necessary."
The beholders drifted toward the dark hole, and the false window began to slide out over it again. "We 
are agreed," the larger eye tyrant said simply. "This meeting ends."
"We are agreed," the two wizards echoed, "and this meeting ends." They stood together in silence and 
watched the dragon window settle back into place.
Manshoon looked at Sarhthor. "Useful news."
"If kept secret, Lord. As it shall be." Their eyes met for a long moment-dark, steady eyes set in 
expressionless faces.
Then Manshoon nodded and turned away. They strode together across the marble to where the unseen 
gate waited to take them back to the High Hall of Zhentil Keep.
"One thing occurs to me," Sarhthor said thoughtfully, a pace or two before Manshoon would have 
vanished. The high lord looked back at him silently.
"Others use this place besides us," the wizard said. "If I were to leave a tracing spell behind to record 
changes in Art, we'd know precisely what castings had been done here between our meetings. No 
spying magic could escape our notice."
Manshoon was already nodding. "Do it." He turned away and disappeared.
Left alone in the chamber, Sarhthor took a few steps back the way he had come, and then cast a spell 
with quick, precise movements. A faint, sparkling radiance seemed to gather out of nowhere to coil 
around his wrists and then leap outward in all directions, streaming away until it faded back into 
nothingness. Wearing the faintest of smiles, the wizard looked slowly around the chamber, turned on 
his heel, took a few strides, and vanished in his turn. Silence fell.
Then the marble floor seemed to ripple and flow, like the farthest tongues of water that waves throw up 
onto the sands of a beach. Gathering in one corner behind a tapestry, the ripples rose up smoothly into a 
man-sized pillar, spun for a moment, and sharpened into the form of a tall, thin, bearded man in plain, 
rather shabby, homespun robes.
Elminster of Shadowdale dusted himself off, looked around with a critical eye at the glowing tapestries, 
and then stared thoughtfully up at the dragon window. Scratching his beard, he grunted, "Tis high time, 
indeed ... for certain folk to set down their harps and get their hands dirty. Again. Just as its time old 
Elminster got walked all over, again. Tis not the first time, this tenday, the world's needed saving."